alright good afternoon my name is Eric
fajita and have few here with me he
introduced himself from King that's the
time where I tell you to stop looking at
your phones unless you're playing candy
crush you to paint candy crush you find
okay but otherwise please stop today
we're going to talk about best practice
of redshift and it is pretty much I keep
having the same presentation every year
so this year I decided to make something
different instead of saying here's what
documentation says you should do it
should not do we're going to go over a
particular example of one customer that
went through themselves and learn the
process and then i will show you some
things under the hood of redshift how
was designed so understand why the best
practices work and why the anti-patterns
don't work so then you can have like a
first-hand experience oh that's why you
should do these or should not do that
and so that's the plan for today right
so we're going to go over be free cap
off redshift we're going to go over a
king implementation of their crm within
red shift and then i'll go come back and
walk you through the whys of his best
practices work on redshift okay sounds
like a plan now what is redshift well
amazon redshift is a relational data
warehouse massive parallel petabytes KO
fully manage database and you have
different platforms to choose for and
it's pretty much a thousand dollars per
terabyte per year or you can start
playing with 25 cents per hour but
that's redshift now that's relief for
you for us here's what redshift is
redshift is a postgres database where we
got the storage layer wiped out and in
its place we created a columnar storage
we're on a regular database all the
columns are together the same role the
same record like a file on red shift
every column has a separate file for
itself so you only touch the columns you
need it's a massive parallel cluster a
share nothing cluster brute force mutual
parallel processing and we put a OLAP
SQL engine on it that it can take those
big
ooh you guys write all the time and it
can take care of those and make the
curry run fast for you now we wanted to
make that you run as a cloud service
right so it's on AWS and to run on NWS
there's a lot of automation that has to
happen on different places and because
AWS is sort of a lego store we pick up
those pieces from other services and
blessed to help us with that we didn't
design a lot of things from scratch so
we are big users of AWS ourselves so we
started using the simple workflow
product from AWS we started using Amazon
VPC so you can protect the data around
the network around your your databases
we have I am so you can have access for
users for the console access we use
Amazon ec2 our hostess are easy to host
the same ones that you can use on your
systems right we use Amazon s3 mostly
for our backups in our intake of data we
use akms for key management we use route
53 for our network management for your
end of point for access to the database
right and we use called watch for
monitoring in alarming right all those I
standard product that you use in the
same way that you would use it I have
any special API any special access we
use the same way as you and that
together makes the service amazon
redshift now inside that availability
zone on redshift redshift is always
inside a single availability zone and
inside of a VPC of virtual private cloud
and it lives on a particular region and
there are things you can do to restore a
new cluster on a different AZ on the
same region or you can push your backups
for different region but in general like
Anna basic level Red chief leaves on a
single AZ now we launched on februari
2013 it was a Valentine's Day was lovely
valentine's day when we launched the
redshift and since then we added a
hundred and thirty-five features
significant features to the system and
we never raise the price one single time
now who here uses right
today show hands awesome great great to
have people now I'm gonna pass the baton
to another user redshift and he's going
to share with you how they did the
implementation how they learn the best
practices on real life brilliant thank
you thanks a lot Eric so first of all
who of you have heard of King before not
that many people but who's heard of
candy crush before okay a lot more
people so King is basically the company
behind candy crush when I was asked by
Eric and his colleagues if I would like
to talk alongside him and explain our
journey of redshift I was very honored
and was very happy to be able to share
our journey we've been using red shifted
King for two years now but my experience
of wretched actually goes back quite a
bit further before King I was running a
company called comma Phi we were a big
marker more big by we were marketing
technology company and the beginning of
2013 we started acquiring a lot of
customers we had a lot of big lines in
the gaming space but also in media and
quite a few other things so we really
needed to ramp up our systems at the
time we're running a post press cluster
which we're really pushing way beyond it
limits what we then needed was to really
upgrade our database technology we went
out we researched a lot of different
solutions but none of them really scaled
to the point where we needed it and then
luckily redshift came along and we were
actually blown out of the water by the
performance and it's eric just said
redshift was launched in February 2013
may 2013 we're ready running in full
production and managed to scale to the
point where we needed to so I'm
personally as well very grateful for the
performance what I like to do today is
go a bit more into detail what we're
actually doing at King so Amazon
redshift as an operational CRM database
at King is the title the key here is the
operational piece because I believe
we're actually using redshift quite
differently from standard data warehouse
operation we're actually using it to
power our marketing system which is
constantly sending messages engaging our
clients but let's go into the business
challenges first what do we have we have
a very dynamic customer base with a very
large scale with hundred millions of
users players at King but we also have
limited data science resources pretty
much like any other company i believe so
we've just seen quite a few of you guys
know candy crush saga but let's look at
what actually happened in the crm saga
before redshift was being used as part
of a marketing system the saga looked a
little bit like this so a marketeer
wanted to do a campaign they thought
about okay who do I want to target what
do I want to send out they then put that
into an email it went over to a data
scientist who then did the extraction
together with an engineer once they've
done that they put that back into an
email it went back to the marketeer
campaign was executed and the cycle
continued the candy crush bubblegum
troll really didn't like this because it
took up to a week sometimes for this
process to finish so it wasn't really
feasible for us to continue that
especially if you look at the scale
we're operating at today so let me give
a little bit of a background off of
where we are at the moment so we're
sending about nine and a half thousand
campaigns on a weekly basis we are
sending about 1.5 billion messages on a
monthly basis we're supporting 12 games
and we're doing all of that with
only eight promotion specialists who are
the marketeers that are actually running
the campaigns and executing that so I
think these numbers are very very
impressive but I think they're even more
impressive if we put them into
perspective where we've actually come
from within two years so before redshift
we were running about five campaigns per
week we're sending only twenty-three
thousand messages per month we supported
only five games and we did all of that
with even more people we're about 10
people dedicated to running that so I
think a very very impressive increase in
terms of scale I talked quite a bit
about the marketeers and that they need
to run the system by themselves so let
me show you what they are actually using
to to engage with the marketing platform
they're using a campaign manager which
is called Emma sorry oh in Spanish Emma
sorry Oh is the messenger of the King
which i think is quite fitting for us so
what you see here is on the left hand
side you've got a query builder so the
marketeers can use very simple and all
logic to construct their campaigns so
they might say we want to message people
that live in las vegas they've played
with in the last 14 days and they're
above level hundred in a particular game
so they can do that and then the blue
bar on the right top right-hand side
gives them pretty much immediate
feedback because we can query wretched
very quickly and the marketeers get
query quick feedback saying this segment
has X number of players so they get a
really good feeling how big their
campaign is and so on so once they've
done that they can quickly click apply
and execute a marketing campaign back on
the back of the data we've actually just
retrieved from redshift but what do we
actually like about redshift so for us
it's been very quick time to market it's
been very scalable great value for money
we holding billions of customer
records in our system we're doing more
than 10,000 queries per day it's great
that we don't need a dedicated admin
team to to run the cluster we're getting
great support from our friends at Amazon
the column abased and massively parallel
nature actually fits our workloads very
well and the execution times of the
analytical and marketing queries are
actually very very quick so to sum up we
love the performance we were actually
getting from the system you might wonder
how big is our cluster so we're running
three clusters here so the bit on the
left-hand side is not drawn to scale at
all otherwise you wouldn't be seeing it
but in development we're running to DC
one large nodes in staging it's six DC
one large nodes but then the Big Daddy
in production here we're running 24 DC
18 x-large notes and they're all EC so
compute notes because for us the
computation is more important than
actually the storage I think the moment
were knee running off 30 40 terabytes so
not that much storage but we need a lot
of compute power to return the queries
in the time time we need so how does
wretched actually fit in overall in the
overall architecture we have so key for
us are obviously our players so they
play our our great games on their
devices from the devices the data goes
into the game servers from the game
servers into the legacy data store from
there we're doing regular eat ales that
are going into s3 redshift then takes
the data from s3 and the msre a server
here is the back end to the front end
you saw a minute ago and that then
queries redshift and gets the user data
out of it for the marketing execution
and once all that's done MSM the msre
server sends the data to our delivery
service which communicate with Facebook
Google Apple and so on
which then deliver the messages up to
the devices and then this lovely circle
continues great so let me quickly sum up
the choir man's we're actually having
for redshift so we need a database that
be part of an operational system that
means it must hand a lot of parallel
queries so we can't have a big query
blocking everything because a lot of
background tasks for continuous
operation of campaigns but also
marketeers are engaging with the system
constantly and for the marketeer queries
we've given ourselves a maximum of 15
seconds it can take for a query or to
return because we want the marketeers to
have a great experience with the system
not needing to wait for things to come
back because if they if it takes like
minutes they'll get bored they do
something else they forget about it and
our players are not really getting the
great experience they deserve so 15
seconds is the threshold we set
ourselves and obviously it must be
financially viable so we can't have an
unlimited number of big instances let me
do a big cut here because here what I've
done so far is giving you a bit of the
background what else scale is what we've
done and what the requirements are for
the system what I like to do now is to
actually dive into real examples and
share the best practices we've learned
over the years we've actually used on
redshifted anger so first one and very
important one is the proper use of
distribution keys in all joints so we're
having tables that have more than 4
billion rows and as you guys probably
know at such a scale only merge-join so
actually the vaio viable solution to get
anything out of the database so we did
that we create the database but still
queries were running pretty much forever
and never returned what we found was
that we actually need to put the
distribution key inside the query
semantically it's redundant
but by adding it redshift doesn't need
to scan across all notes to actually get
the data out so it can stain as in a
single node and will be very quick
returning the information so Eric later
on will actually explain a lot more
technical details about the best
practices I'm sharing so distribution
keys key in all joins very important
that also leads me on to what we've done
actually with natural distribution piece
so at King we're updating about ten
percent of our data on a daily basis so
a lot of the data is constantly changing
which means we need to do a lot of
updating and merging of data and what we
had at the beginning we had a
distribution key that was local to
redshift so as soon as the new data came
in we needed to compute it do the
updating of the data and so on and what
we found this process took actually more
than 24 hours to complete so not viable
at all what we then did we started
searching for a natural distribution key
within the business so something the new
data has as well as the existing data
within redshift and for us there is
quite an obvious one which is the
universal play ID that any player within
the king network has so we use that
insight redshift and then when the new
data comes in we can use that again in
all the joints doing the merging and the
updating and we dramatically reduce the
time so as I said it took more than 24
hours and now we're running at about 30
minutes and most queries are returned
and most updates are actually happening
in less than five minutes so a great
performance increase while we're on the
topic of updating data as I said one of
the big requirements for us is to have
redshift running as part of an
operational system which means we can't
have massive right locks all the time
saying right lock the tables
we're doing the updating once we're done
we're releasing everything and operation
continues we need to make sure that the
system can continuously operate at the
same level of performance so what we've
done is we're actually taking the data
we're copying it into temporary tables
and the temporary tables are inside
redshift so it's not an operation
happening outside redshift but it's
happening inside redshift and we're
doing all the merging all the
computation everything we need to do to
add the new data with the temporary
tables and from there we're actually
copying the temporary tables over so we
only have very short right locks and
we're getting a great performance out of
the system next one so next one is quite
a funny one for us column compression
encoding we thought it would have maybe
five maximum 10% of performance increase
and our friend thought amazon were very
very insistent with us and saying no
guys you really need to make that change
and they even sent two engineers down to
Barcelona helping us to find the best
encoding for us and we had a very very
pleasant surprise because we achieved a
very heavy reduction of i/o we had a
nearly one hundred percent performance
increase and very nice was that we could
reduce the cluster from 48 DC one XL
large notes down to 24 so a massive
reduction in cost as well which
obviously make the business very happy
but one note a notion of caution here we
did a lot of testing and experimenting
to find the right encoding so you can't
just employ one but you need to actually
look and see which one fits the best to
get the right performance levels of you
so this was a as I said very very good
and nice surprise for us now on to
concurrency optimization in wlm so as I
said it's running as an operational
system for us which means
lot of parallel queries marketeers are
doing queries the system is executing a
lot of campaigns in the background and
the market has found that often the
queries return as I said within the 15
second threshold but sometimes the
queries took a long time even though
just before hand they took only let's
say five seconds to return so they came
to the engineers and said look the
system is broken or something is
happening because the queries are not
returning properly we started digging
but what we found was that the average
completion time of the query was was on
average the same its state within the
threshold so then we started digging
more and we found a great query within
the github utils redshift as providing
which actually gives you the time a
query stays in the queue before it's
being executed and bingo here we found
that quite a lot of the queries are
actually queuing for quite a while
before they can execute because this
number should ideally be 0 here to get
the best performance luckily there was a
great easy fix for it we basically
increase the number of concurrent
queries we can run from 5 up to 10 you
might think oh they're guys just doubled
it because 10 looks quite a nice round
number up from five but we did actually
do quite a lot of experiments to find
the right number for us and I would urge
you to actually do the same because if
you up this number too much you can run
in down of memory issues as well with
redshift so again quite a bit of
experimentation is is a good thing to do
here now as I said we getting a lot of
new data into the system constantly and
that means we need to modify the data at
the beginning we thought great what
we'll do is as soon as the new piece of
data comes in we update the database so
we were running
current modifications of the data but
actually we ran into a lot of errors
here which resulted in quite a few
rollbacks because we're accessing the
same tables at the same time which
obviously the system doesn't like at all
so we opted for a very straightforward
fix here which is going from peril to
sequential processing and updating of
the data for our data freshness
requirements that is more than enough
but maybe you have more stricter data
freshness requirements so you might want
to do it in parallel but just a notion
of caution here that you might end up
having quite a few rollbacks as well now
on to vacuum I'm sure most of you don't
like vacuums too much they block the
system they're often quite challenging
to manage and require quite a bit of
work same was true for us we opted for
the standard 24-hour vacuum cycles but
because we update as I said about ten
percent of our data constantly what we
found towards the end of the 24-hour
period the performance of the database
was degrading quite dramatically up to
the point where really wasn't responsive
and we couldn't provide the right
service to the marketeers and the reason
for that is if you start updating data
redshift doesn't do a straightforward
update but what it actually does it
doesn't insert and delete so you end up
actually having quite a lot of data skew
or data distribution skew within your
tables leading to big def fragmentation
of the data which means performance goes
down and just takes a lot longer for the
queries to return so what we then did we
went from a 24-hour vacuum cycle to an
on-demand vacuum model so we actually
wrote our own system here that's making
use of the svv table info system
redshift provides and
we've set a threshold per table where if
the performance goes below and falls
below this this threshold we're actually
doing an on-demand vacuum and this had
the great effect so performance was
stable system is running at the same
speed across the board but also it meant
the workings didn't didn't clock up the
system or block the systems because they
didn't have as much to do so was a great
solution for us and I urge you to
actually look at the information the
redshift system is providing so you can
see if this is something you should
potentially do as well now this is a
funny one so reduce the number of
selected columns for you guys who have
only used collamer data stores this one
is probably extremely obvious we've come
from postgres so oltp background and
obviously with oil TP databases you
don't get a massive you don't really get
a performance penalty if you select more
columns then you actually need because
you already got the row with with all
the information you need what we have in
our system as I showed you with the user
interface the marketeers are putting the
query in and then we have a system that
actually translates what the marketeers
have put in into SQL statements to then
return the data and this system was a
legacy system which we initially wrote
for postgres and the system often
selected more columns then they were
actually required so we went back into
the system and we did a lot of heavy
optimization making sure that we only
select the columns that are actually
required in the query which again gave
us a big performance gain so as I said
not one for everyone because for quite a
few of you it's quite obvious but if you
have an LG peder background and you're
moving over to red shift
that's something to keep in mind another
very important one for us batch sizes
because we're constantly reading a lot
of information for our segments from
redshift we started with batch size of a
hundred thousand but we found the
performance wasn't great we then started
experimenting and we increase batch size
to a million initially and what we
actually found was that the batch size
is not scaling linearly but a lot better
so doing a hundred thousand or a million
took about the same time and what we
opted for in the end is a batch size of
about five million redshift can actually
do more and still return very quickly
but that was actually due to a Amos Aria
system so what's actually connecting
with redshift is the limitation here
however the limitation of 5 million as i
said is due to the external system but
redshift does have a limitation
especially if you go way beyond the five
million so we quite often do extracts of
data that are ranging in the area of a
hundred million two hundred million at a
time or even more and at that point the
leader node can actually become a
massive bottleneck because you're
collecting all the data you're funneling
through the database driver through the
leader node out to your external system
what we found thanks to our friends from
redshift to actually pointed it out to
us we found quite a nifty feature of
redshift which can actually unload data
to s3 directly from a node not having to
go through the leader node so if we have
really big exports of data we are
writing directly through 33 however here
you again have to watch your
distribution key very carefully because
if you don't there's a big chance again
it scans across all the different notes
and you have a massive performance issue
so if you have the distribution key in
order and you have a lot of data
actually doing the unload command can
give you really big performance gains
great so these are our best practices
what we've learned over the time what
we've done as well now is we've actually
put them into definitely do medium do
and do it if you have some time really
important one use distribution keys that
can be used in all joints migrate to a
nap to a natural key if possible reduce
the use of the lead node as much as
possible column compression and coding
then on the medium side data
pre-processing outside the main tables
WM optimizations reduce the batch size
as much as possible and if you've got
some time prohibit concurrent
modification of data reduce selected
columns and do some on-demand vacuums
based on the state of the table if you
guys have any other ones I would really
love to hear from you afterwards so
please come up and have a discussion
afterwards because we also want to learn
from you and see what you've done so we
can hopefully increase the performance
even more and now over to Eric again who
will give you a bit more technical
details all right so thank you very much
so when you build redshift we bill to
achieve with three things in mind we
want it to be fast cheap and easy to use
it's like you have a formula 1 car but a
self-driving formal own car that it
costs like a Toyota Corolla okay that's
the idea okay or if you think about a
toaster we want it to be like a toaster
you submit your job choose a few option
any runs right but we can't not know how
the system works otherwise you can't
take advantage of its strength or
appreciate the trade-offs you making for
example on a toaster or even on those
kind of simple toast we have a bagel
button now who knows here what a bagel
button actually does very few people
awesome so if you want to know sticking
to the end I'll tell you what you're
going to do at the end of the
presentation okay but for you to
appreciate redshift you have to
understand how was designed and how is
under the hood and how it works so if
you think about the architecture of
redshift you have a leader node there is
a node the same type as you know you
choose for your compute node and by the
way you don't pay for the leader node so
if you create a tan node cluster you
actually have an 11 node cluster and the
leader notice on us what is the same
type and model and memory as the compute
nodes and the compute nodes underneath
is where the data resides and data gets
processed massively parallel and the
data goes in and out in parallel through
the compute nodes either from s3 or EMR
dime DB or n ssh server you can put your
hands on on the leader side is where we
put your SQL endpoint and all the
metadata is stored there and all the
coordination of how the queries run
happens on the leader node now the idea
for the relative to be fast is to reduce
I oh so we want to make as little I 0 as
possible and one thing we did when a
design redshift is to make a columnar
storage on a regular database you have a
row that has all the columns together
and if you query one column you have to
the block with all the other columns
together oh you and data warehouse
applications normally have very wide
tables so become a very expensive
proposition on redshift if you only
create a particular column you only
touch the blocks for that column and
that reduces a la ti yo and that's why
select star it's a crime it should be
prohibited right it should be like been
right it's a bad practice anyway for
application purposes because you never
know which columns are going to come
back but on a columnar database is even
worse so that's why we try to reduce the
area by only touching the columns you
need for your query now the other thing
we do is to allow data compression of
the cons and because the system's
colomer you can have a different
compression for different columns
because every data type has a better
compression depending on which order it
is if it's an integer or is a date or if
it's a varchar so you can choose
different compressions now this system
helps you by doing up here data and
compressing all possible ways and then
tell you which one came out smaller but
it's a sample you might know your data
better and you might know the
compression algorithms better and there
is trade-offs usually you spend more CPU
to compress and uncompress the data but
data has applications normally at the
i/o bound not CPU bound which translates
to pretty much we haven't found a
situation for large tables wear
compression doesn't make any faster it
always makes faster and makes the
smaller and cheaper like he talked about
being able to reduce to buy half the
size of their cluster right in the other
thing we do is something called zone
maps and that's a departure from the
regular database regular databases you
might have to scan the whole table right
you call linear scan right as full table
scan as other people know and and when
you do that a system language if you do
that really fast because we move to
parallel brute force massive parallel
data it runs fast but imagine you don't
have to touch every block to know to get
the right data looking for on other
database you have an index or projection
or or some other name where you have a
redundant copy of the data in a
different
format a bee tree or a hash hash index
or something that allows you to navigate
to the data one and then only get a
blocky one on red shift every block of
every column has a header that remains
in memory all the time that has the
minimax value of that column on that
block so when you're skinny for a
particular value we look at the head
very memory first if the velum looking
for doesn't fall in between me max I
don't touch that block and then if I
have multiple parameters like I'm doing
location and date and ID we do an
intersection of the blocks or they roll
numbers they need to be scan and only
scan the blocks that you need for now
that makes more sense if the data is in
a particular order right so on red shift
for example imagine have a completely
uncharted table and you make a query
that you want to look for a particular
date because of zone maps even if the
table is not sorted or the column is not
your search key if we will do the zone
maps and try to skip the blocks as much
as possible but if you see is hit amis
it's not that great but if the table is
sorted by that date then I can only scan
a single block now the other difference
between redshift and our regular
database that has indexes is that if you
index in one column and you query a
different column you don't use the index
on redshift if you order by one column
but you career by a different column
however the different column has a
correlation with the first column for
example order ID and date they both
growth to the right right so if you sort
by one you kind of starting by the other
as well so you take advantage may not be
fully ventures 100% advantage but maybe
eighty percent advantage and saves a lot
of time to scan your data so on redshift
you can create complex sort keys you can
choose one column on multiple columns on
the compound search keys the way it
works is we start by one column for the
first column and then for the same
values of the first column we sort by
the other columns which means that you
don't want a very high resolution
problem the first column because
everything comes after that will be
useless because
you have a very high resolution so
contrary to think of on indexes where
you put the most selective column first
unread shift is actually the opposite
you put the least selective column that
you query by first because then you can
take advantage of the multiple layers of
your sort keys in my example if I'm
searching by a customer ID only I can
touch only the red block their simple
easy efficient but if I skip the
customer ID and only query by product ID
and my search key is customer ID product
ID I will have to scan the whole table
which is not that bad on red shift
because you only scan that column and
its massive parallettes cetera but it's
not ideal because it's a linear cost
right the bigger my table is the long it
takes right so a lot of customers say
you know I have some table that I
sometimes I career by one column
sometimes agree by other column can you
help me have to sort keys that I can
both grew by one or the other I don't
have to always have the first column on
and in the tendency source you know
let's create a projection or merge index
whatever adjoining like some different
database right we didn't want to have
redundant data on the database because
it will slow down the loads so we got
nerdy and came up with something called
interleaved start keys where the two are
up to eight columns they are they are
sorted in an interleaved way I saw it a
little bit by one column and a little
bit about the other column the way that
works is like this first for each column
that I'm having my interleaved index on
I I map in buckets the 1024 values and I
distribute the valley buckets like a
hash information but I maintain the
order so I have buckets I maintain the
order and then every value is given a
bucket then I mix together the beats of
the bucket values for every column so
then I maintain the order so I still
have the order like if I do a range
search I stew can walk through and know
when I don't have that column anymore
right it allows me to do range scans but
allow me to scan by product ID or by
customer ID in
in Italy right so the data will be
sorted equal measure on both keys now if
after created my cable and did my
interleave start key I have a new value
that didn't exist before there is others
bucket and of course after why I have
too many of those new values all your
data is on the others bucket is is not
efficient anymore right so the
interdictor key works for colander the
values are kind of stable and if you
change ed too many new values eventually
you have to do maintenance on the table
remap and rewrite the whole table to
incorporate the new mappings that's what
we call vacuum reindex right it is
painful it is slow it sucks we're going
to fix it one day but not there today ok
now in my example right let's say if I'm
looking for one customer ID instead of
scanning for blocks on my example I scan
only two blocks if I can buy a product
ID I also only scan two blocks instead
of four block so i get logarithmic
access to the table it is much faster
than on linear scale oh right now
interleave start key is explained to you
has some limitations the first
limitation only really makes sense on
very very large tables redshift is a
massive parallel system columnar fully
compressed blocks so imagine a table
where on a particular slice on a
particular cpu I have 10 blocks of data
on that column that represents pretty
much all about eating million rows right
and only one I have about 10 blocks of
to scan is where the cost to scan the
whole table it's double the cost of
scanning via interleave search key right
now there is cost to load and maintain
the int'l if search key table so it only
really makes sense if it was really
really big right otherwise it's not much
difference you see only after the tenth
at the numbers kind of really go apart
between the linear and the library to me
one and only makes sense if columns
domain are stable because if I put a
date or timestamp on my table the moment
I build a table the very next value that
insert go to the others bucket it's
useless right I have to reading this all
the time right and even that we are
thinking of finding a way to fix that so
the
interleave Sarki can be a wider range of
uses today is a quite narrow usage but
for that usage it saves really read a
lot of time but if you use for the wrong
the wrong usage especially fuse
timestamp it can cause your headache so
keep eye on that now on red shift on the
topic of trying to allow yo to not
happen right we compress everything you
try to stay in the same place we want to
distribute the data as even as possible
so a choice of distribution key becomes
very important is we have to make sure
that you know where your data is going
and the idea is to be even to see we
have askew and one node has way more
data than others everybody has to wait
that one node so you lose your
parallelize right and you wanted to
reduce the data movement because you
wanna when you join two tables one of
the rows of those two they're joining
already together in the same node so you
don't have to move data around so that's
your you choose your distribution key
and all right chief you have three
choices either you choose a column where
we apply a hash function and put on the
on the on the different slices on the
different nodes on the redshift and for
two tables that have key distribution
keys should be able to actually fall on
the same call when you join the two
columns actually have to be the same
data type I have customers that have one
table with a key that is char and
another key that is VAR char both the
dissolution key and the joy together
doin dirt and why it's slow because the
data types are different a hash function
will act differently on different data
types so data types have to be saying
the size and the type have to be the
same or if you don't have such a column
you can choose the column or you don't
have a good of choice you can ask the
system just distributed evenly the data
round right we came up with a third way
imagine on a star schema where you have
a few large tables that you can't use
this machine key but they have a bunch
of smaller table that you join that are
not so small that you don't care but you
can't have a single dissipation key for
all of them because there are different
tables different dimensions you can make
the system to have a copy of the tape on
every node not on every slice on every
node and every slice on that note
uses the data locally and then you
replicate they eat a little bit but for
those joints a star schema it's much
much faster for you to use now you talk
to me okay how we're going to know all
this it's hard to understand and I'm I
migrating from another system i don't
know about redshift how we do and the
documentation is complicated maybe it's
not complicated but it's long it's big i
understand this big it's a very long
document you will keep changing making
try to make it better but it is
complicated so we have help for you we
can help you migrate your database for
you that's a tool that's been out for a
while and we adding features to this to
Duke of schema conversion to the schema
conversion to can point to your existing
database or a code eight and a teaser
Greenplum read our schema read the
statistics of how you use your tables
how you queer your tables and build for
you this schema for redshift already
optimized with the best search key and
the best distribution key all you have
to do is to implement right now it's not
perfect but it's a very very good first
step it's awesome now the two also can
look at the code you have on your
application your Java code or a script
that I created for one of your sources
database what we call legacy databases
and you can convert those scripts new to
redshift schema so it converts your code
that SQL code and convert your schema
now the latest feature added to the
schema conversion to is one of the
sources now is redshift you can have
existing redshift cuz they do not sure
if the optimal or not point the truth to
to it and it can create a new scheme
that is optimized for the way you use
your data so it can save you a lot of
time and help you understand the choice
of distribution key and start key
because the to give you options eighty
percent certainty so good submission key
twenty percent these would be a good and
so forth now if you don't have time to
build a custom dashboard for building
queries like the kink guys did you can
use quick site because quick site and
redshift I think that go well hand
hand together because we kind of sit
next to each other in development and
they build the spice engine to read data
already or a chief columnar into the
spice engine that is common are and
allow you to navigate your data really
really fast and really really easy so I
highly recommend if you haven't looked
into quick side it just became GA and
has a whole life ahead of it adding new
features and cool stuff I highly
recommend you take a look to it now one
more thing about the batch sizes that
that field talked about is on red chief
the parallelism for loads is defined by
the number of files in load so if you
hold one big file only one CPU will be
busy so you just using six percent of
your performance if you distribute your
file to multiple files one at least one
per slice and so many files are similar
sizes then you have the full performance
of your copy command alright so
breathing a little bit how do you
optimize your database for your queries
first you periodically check the status
of your table see if hell's you need
stats or need a vacuum right and you
really have to take a look on something
that's missing stats or table skew or
columns that are not compressed or data
that's not sorted all that will over
time kind of degrade your performs it's
like it's like hygiene right you don't
brush your teeth every day and one day
you have a big cavity I wonder what
happened yesterday that have kept you
today well it's not because days over
time you neglected your data on red
shifted the more often you keep track of
your data you don't lose performance and
the maintenance itself is cheaper and
faster if you let it go too long then
the matrix itself takes longer right so
keep your data in hygiene in up-to-date
ok and check the status of your cluster
check your mm queueing commit queueing
database walks take a look on that see
what's going on right now i'm assuming
them just like yeah every so often have
your toast you have to clean up the
things underneath right otherwise
there's a fire one day right so be
careful with that right they optimizing
specifically like to have statistics
about the tables now because we have
very wide tables you say i don't have
time to gather stats on all my tables
all the time
you can gather stats only on sort keys
distribution Keys inquiries that you use
on future that's enough for the
optimized to make good choices on the on
the queries right don't need to scan
right if you have the time great but if
you don't at least gather stats on sort
keys dispersion keys and filters because
that will make a difference between a
good plan and a bad plan and of course
table skew and unsorted table can become
a problem over time especially table
skill right just look at this queue and
if that is Qi index on this SUV table if
it's a bigger than five you're in
trouble right please please please pay
attention to that okay now one thing we
talked about is to avoid modification of
data at the same time right let's call
the commit q on Red chief the committee
Q is single threaded cluster why'd you
can do much for change at the same time
but at commits time they come together
and they line up so in the locks on red
shift happen on a table level as well so
the two people cannot change the same
type of the same time they can query and
change the same time it's fully acid but
you don't want to do so that's why for a
single table you want to keep single
threaded and that we increase your
throughput instead of the equation
throughput trying to do too many things
on rights at the same time will decrease
your to put and that we don't want to
work log management kill it's something
already chief that kinda misunderstood
and here's how explain on other systems
a single query cannot take over the
whole cluster so for you to take
advantage of the million-dollar you paid
for your system you have to run a bunch
of crazy same time that's your idea on
redshift a single query can take and is
designed to take the whole cluster so
you not gain anything by running 400
degrees at the same time this is my
designed to run few queries very fast
and you can use workload management to
line up your resources because your
customers will try to come to the base
at their pace and you can regulate that
to a certain degree but you can look at
where chieftain say if I tune my WLAN
cue from 5 to 10 how much faster my
whole workload ends and from then to 20
how much faster and you it doesn't get
any faster that you don't need to turn
it on again you keep it there and let
the system handle because
at some point you're going to heat
inverse is scaling where the churn of
too many things run at the same time we
actually make your run slower than
faster we keep working on optimizing the
workload management q and there are some
awesome new features coming up and i
highly recommend there's a session
tomorrow 230 p.m. that Vidya is gonna
come and tell all the new features that
we came last month and the next two
months I highly come in because unless
you want to stay another hour here to go
over them do know okay okay so we would
come tomorrow and talk and see you at
the session about new features but
workload management q think of how you
can optimize the to puch of a system
don't think about concurrency think
about to put and that's that's why we
don't want to think about now we put
together of the years a bunch of tools
for you to optimize your users of Red
chief so there is a github it's open
source and open source means that you
can contribute as well you can say hey
how about the skip that does that how
about the script or there's a me and
there's a problem here we take
suggestions all the time I maintained
the repository and you have utilities
you have monitors have udfs we have
scripts views we have colony cold
utility to re-encode your system to
recompress your system if you want we
even have a to more recent similar what
they did they can look at your tables
and see which tables need more vacuum
and stats and run the scripts for you so
take a look on those get hubs and it's
very very very useful for you to manage
your system now are we done I really
kind of you know rich is good enough
right we would only need to change
anything right we never done right so
what's coming next we adding a ton of
features on red shift and and all the
features we add on achieved are always
related to to make it fast to make it
cheaper to make easier to use right and
there will be a session tomorrow BDA 304
it's called what snack what's new with
Amazon or achieve I highly recommend
this is going to go over all the new
features a few things that we haven't
announced yet we normally don't do that
there are few things that are just about
to be launched so you want to talk to
you about right relate to workload
management skills related to how we're
going to get more crazy
to put going to the system talking about
how you'll be able to have different
ways of connecting database without
having username and password directly
some kind of cool stuff coming up so I
highly recommend to take a look on that
right and there's a few other sessions
that are other customs that use red
shift to do their work right and they
learn their lessons and and I highly
highly really beg you to look back on
the documentation on best practices and
now with this understanding from today
read it again I understand the whys off
we say do these and don't do that we
keep making documentation better we take
suggestions we try to fix as much as you
can and we really really want our season
to be like a toaster that you just put
your jobs and make a few choices and it
runs right and you don't have to worry
about too much and we we strive to make
it better and better over time I'm a
recovering DBA that I'd love to have
knobs on things and I have my hands lat
all the time now we're not going to put
a knob if this isn't going to choose the
right value or going to do automatically
do the right thing we don't add knobs
right and that's how has been since the
beginning but they're few knobs it you
can't escape for example the toaster the
bago pattern right what is the bagel
button do right so the bagel button do
is you only turn on the heater on the
inside so the outside where the crust is
it doesn't burn if you don't know that
you don't press the big about you burn
your cheese on your bagel or you put the
wrong way right for whatever reason
you're going to change the I know right
but you have to know that and not net
all toasters are the same some toasters
the outside don't turn on at all my
toaster it turns out a little bit less
right so you have to understand how
things work so you can take full
advantage of them you don't need to be
an expert on toaster but you need to
know to clean up the dry underneath a
little bit as well and know what the
buttons do and how to put your stuff in
and once you do this minimal and
understand how things work you can take
full advantage of the system right and
that's the idea for for red chief we
want to make a system that's going to
keep evolving over time we're not going
to build them mahima database like other
database we're always going to be fast
cheap and
did you use and that's what I have for
you today thank you